## Howdy!
CourseCraft is a browser-based degree planning tool with some neat functionality. The underlying philosophy behind this project was to make the computer do most of the work when it comes to course requirements, prerequisites, etc. This was especially difficult in person for people who were doing double majors/double minors/had lots of extra credit and comparing programs across tabs was not very fun. Additionally, the ui of the existing system was not very intuitive or fun to use and it was not as easy to visualize things like in CourseCraft. This project contains all the code and data to run the frontend and the backend with all TAMU courses. However, I haven't yet scraped the degrees. I will briefly cover setting up the program and then a couple of the structures and systems I made to help it all run relatively smoothly. There are certainly loads of things that can be optimized since I was learning while building this and definitely should have sat down and planned out everything in advance much more than I did. Feel free to email me at vincent.cushnie@tamu.edu about any bugs, bad practices, or suggestions.

## Getting started.
The program runs through docker (with a separate container for frontend, backend, and database). Assuming that all the requisites installs have been completed, start the containers by running:  
```docker compose up -d```
This should start up all containers which you can check with `docker ps`. The website should now be accessible locally at http://localhost:5173 (which is the port associated with the frontend container). The next thing that needs to be done is create the tables and seed the data. Go into the backend container:
```docker exec -it backend bash```
and then run this to create all the tables:
```php artisan migrate```
Next the data can be seeded by doing the following command:
```php artisan db:seed```
Since the data has been seeded you can now visit http://localhost:5173, register and account and login. Everthing should work as intended from here.

## Data
All the data for Texas A&M Courses and Majors was scraped by me from the https://catalog.tamu.edu website using a custom webscraper I programmed (https://github.com/vincentcushnie/TAMUCourseWebScraper). I decided to hold the data in several tables that were appropriate for the system model. The non-connected tables are majors - which contains all major information except course requirements and courses - which contains all the course information. Then from here I created a table that related majors to courses in a many-to-many model since a course can belong to multiple majors and a major can have multiple courses. I also made a prerequistes table which relates courses to each other via their prerequisites.
##Backend
CourseCraft uses a laravel php backend for the api that the frontend interacts with. There is nothing to pretty or complicated with the implementation of the api and its mostly standard eloquent ORM requests.

## Frontend
CourseCraft uses vue js for the frontend and is a single page application. Pinia is used for managing states which made the process very easy. There were several systems which were kind of tricky to implement and will be explained below.
## Major Requirements that Allow Choice
Early on in development, I realized I would need a way to separate and relate courses and majors. Aside from the initial problem that a course can be a member of several majors was the problem of major requirements that allowed for a choice from a range of courses. To solve this problem, I decided to use the concept of major_wrappers. Essentially a major is a collection of groups of courses and each group has a wrapper associated with that major. That way whenever a user selects a course, I attach that major_wrapper to that course. This vastly simplified working with multiple majors/minors since I could just manipulate the major_wrappers by adding and subtracting them as necessary. This also allows for a semesters structure that only takes in courses which may or may not have one or more major_wrappers allowing great flexibility.
## Double Dipping
If someone is doing a double major, they will almost always have overlapping coursework. The trick with this system was identifying when to offer the user a choice to "accept overlap" and when to automatically accept it. Obviously if both majors require Math 100 then selecting Math 100 under one major will trigger the second major_wrapper to be added as well. However, if the second major requires a choice between MATH 100 and MATH 120 then it is conceivable the person might not want to accept credit for that or would want to accept the credit for a different requirement. I created the system so users can have complete control over "accepting overlap" or not as they see fit though I may add an option later which allows for an "auto-accept" button.
## Prerequisites Interface
A tricky part of development early on involved how to get courses to update and know when their prerequisites were fulfilled and not. For example, if someone adds a course to a semester and its prerequisites have been met in previous semesters, then it is simple for the computer to perform the check and see this. However, if a person were to later remove a previous course that was a prerequisite, how would the course know that its prerequisites are no longer met. The naive way to do this would be to recheck every courses prerequisites after any removal, however that would be very costly and could involve checking hundreds of unrelated courses. Luckily, through the use of a vue computed value, we can create essentially a string of boolean conditionals with variables for each prerequisite and then vue will recompute this value if any of the boolean conditionals which are tied to prerequisite courses change. The actually system is a little more complex to handle whether or not a course has been seen before/where it is in the semester time sequencing and more but that is how it works generally. This solution allows for what I consider to be a quite clever interface where courses whose prerequisites are met are green while those that are not met are red. These colors update automatically and (hopefully) efficiently as courses are added and removed. I also added the functionality which allows the user to drag semesters to whatever order they please (though the usefulness of this is up for debate). If you want to understand more about how the prerequisite system works, look closesly at the planner.store file (specifically the courseStatus object and the addCourse function).
## The Full Process
The full process of adding a course goes as follows. Once a course is found (whether it be in a major course menu or in the department course menu) and the add button is clicked, a function runs (findOverlap) which checks for any overlap with other majors/minors. If no contestable overlap is found (i.e. no overlap that has more than one choice) then the overlap that was found is accepted (major_wrappers are added to the course) If contestable overlap is found, the user is prompted over which if any they would like to accept (and those major_wrappers are added to the course). The point of no return is then reached and the addCourse function runs which pulls any prerequisite data for the added course, creates the computed prereq value, records which groups from any majors have now been used, and then adds the course with its wrappers to a semester.
